## Ethereum Lottery


#### How to Use: 
Download or clone the **Lottery** repository. Go to this directory **/Lottery/ethereum-lottery/** then copy the code inside the Lottery.sol and paste it here https://ethereum.github.io/browser-solidity/#optimize=false to run and test the program.


### Simple Lottery

The lottery has a constructor and three public functions corresponding to the three actions a user can take: buy a ticket, draw a winner, and claim their winnings. By default, the fallback function buys a ticket if a user sends ether to the contract address. The only variable that needs to be set at contract creation is ticketingCloses. The duration of the contract is specified as the argument to the constructor, and the ticket close time is set to duration seconds in the future. 

Buying a ticket is fairly simple,the value must be exactly equal to the ticket price, and the transaction must be mined before the ticketing close time. Buying a ticket adds the sender’s address to the tickets array. Picking a winner requires the ticketing window to be closed for at least 5 minutes.


### Recurring Lottery

The new lottery will occur in rounds so that a new prize pool is started every time the old one closes. It will also allow users to purchase multiple tickets in one transaction instead of just one and add a couple of security improvements. Type and struct definitions usually go at the beginning of a contract because they are used in the variable definitions and rest of the contract. We have defined two structs: Round and Entry. A round ends when block number endBlock is mined and the winner
is determined by selecting a random entry from entries. A random seed generated by the blockhash from block number drawBlock will determine which entry gets the prize.

A single Entry contains the buyer address and quantity of tickets purchased. Since an Entry can hold more than one ticket, determining the total number of tickets sold requires a calculation that gets more expensive with more entries. Instead, totalQuantity is defined to track the number of tickets sold in each round.


### Random Number Generator

The idea behind the RNG lottery is to use a commit-reveal sequence to create a verifiably random number. Every buyer submits a commitment hash when they buy a ticket. The commitment is generated by hashing together the user’s address and a secret number known only to the user. When the ticketing period is over, there is a reveal period during which each player must reveal the secret number used to generate their commitment hash. The secret number is hashed on-chain with the player’s
address, and this hash must match the commitment submitted with the ticket. Players who don’t reveal their numbers during the reveal period are dropped from the lottery. The secret numbers are hashed together to generate the random seed for picking a winner.


### Powerball
In Powerball, the user picks six numbers per ticket. The first five numbers are standard numbers from 1–69, and the sixth number is a special Powerball number from 1–26 that offers extra rewards. To know what time the draw will held, you can wait 3 minutes depend on the time input in the round_length. 

#### Set the following in the code:
Ticket Price = 1 ether

Round Length = 3 minutes

